---
layout: post
title: "Fluxadj 1: CESM Restoring"
date: 2020-07-24
description: POP2 surface forcing namelist and restoring problem
share: true
tags:
 - CESM
---

To do surface ocean flux ajustment or flux correction in CESM, the first step is to restore model SST and SSS to observational seasonal climatology in a fully coupled setting. In order to use "restoring" settings in a fully coupled run, the better way is to set pop2 forcing_pt/s_interior_nml instead of forcing_shf/sfwf_nml, which is only for ocean-alone model in regard to "restoring". 

Let's first check the defualt settings in a forcing_pt/s_interior_nml
```fortran
/
&forcing_pt_interior_nml
 pt_interior_data_inc = 24.
 pt_interior_data_renorm = 20*1.
 pt_interior_data_type = 'none'
 pt_interior_file_fmt = 'bin'
 pt_interior_filename = 'unknown-pt_interior'
 pt_interior_formulation = 'restoring'
 pt_interior_interp_freq = 'every-timestep'
 pt_interior_interp_inc = 72.
 pt_interior_interp_type = 'linear'
 pt_interior_restore_file_fmt = 'bin'
 pt_interior_restore_filename = 'unknown-pt_interior_restore'
 pt_interior_restore_max_level = 0
 pt_interior_restore_tau = 365.
 pt_interior_surface_restore = .false.
 pt_interior_variable_restore = .false.
/
&forcing_s_interior_nml
 s_interior_data_inc = 24.
 s_interior_data_renorm = 20*1.
 s_interior_data_type = 'none'
 s_interior_file_fmt = 'bin'
 s_interior_filename = 'unknown-s_interior'
 s_interior_formulation = 'restoring'
 s_interior_interp_freq = 'every-timestep'
 s_interior_interp_inc = 72.
 s_interior_interp_type = 'linear'
 s_interior_restore_file_fmt = 'bin'
 s_interior_restore_filename = 'unknown-s_interior_restore'
 s_interior_restore_max_level = 0
 s_interior_restore_tau = 365.
 s_interior_surface_restore = .false.
 s_interior_variable_restore = .false.
/
```

**Explianation:**
[Check pop2 namelist here](http://mermaid.uconn.edu/cesm_climatology/CESM_code/cesm1_1_1/scripts/doc/modelnl/nl_pop2.html)

*pt_interior_data_renorm*
Renormalization constants for components in interior potential temperature forcing file. Default: 20*1.. If the unit of the potenT forcing data is degC, then we set it as a defualt number or as 1.

*pt_interior_formulation*
Interior potential temperature formulation. Default: 'restoring'

*pt_interior_data_type*
Type or periodicity of interior potential temperature forcing.
Valid Values: 'none', 'annual', 'monthly', 'monthly-equal', 'monthly-calendar', 'n-hour'
Default: 'none'

*pt_interior_restore_max_level*
Maximum level for interior potential temperature restoring. (Default: 0)

*pt_interior_restore_tau*
Restoring timescale (days) if pt_interior_formulation='restoring'. (LANL Default: 1e20; CESM Default: 365)

*pt_interior_interp_freq*
How often to temporally interpolate interior potential temperature data to current time.
Valid Values: 'never', 'n-hour', 'every-timestep'
LANL Default: 'never'
CESM Default: 'every-timestep'

*pt_interior_interp_inc*
Increment (hours) between interpolation times if interp_freq='n-hour'. (**Note that this is only for 'n-hour' type**)
LANL Default: 1e20; CESM Default: 72

*pt_interior_data_inc*
Increment (hours) between forcing times if pt_interior_data_type='n-hour'. (**Note that this is only for 'n-hour' type**)
LANL Default: 1e20; CESM Default: 24

<span style="color:red;">**e.g.**</span> Setting *pt_interior_data_type = monthly-calendar* and *pt_interior_restore_max_level = 1* and *pt_interior_restore_tau = 10* means model **global** SST restored to observational monthly cliamtology with a restoring time scale (or e-floding time scale) of 10 days to a prescribed data settled in *pt_interior_filename*. 
If one is to set different restoring time scales and levels in different regions, or to perform a regional restoring, **pt_interior_variable_restore = true* and *pt_interior_restore_filename* should be set. Note that data settled in *pt_interior_restore_filename* should be an integer corresponding to the restoring time scale and deepest level you want to mix at (for each point). For a gx3v7 grid, if you want to mix everywhere, you can set it to 60 at every point.
 
<span style="color:red;">**Note:**</span>
When I finished pre-processing forcing data and setting the nml, I start running the case but to my surprise, SST and SSS have no change in restoring run compared to the control run, even if I though I did restoring. It puzzled me until I touched someone who encountered the same problem. He told me to modify the one line of the code in *forcing_pt/s_interior.F90*. Thanks so much to him!
For *forcing_pt_interior.F90*, 
```fortran
!-----------------------------------------------------------------------
!
!  do interior restoring if required (no surface restoring for any)
!
!-----------------------------------------------------------------------

   if ((k > 1 .or.pt_interior_surface_restore).and.                    &
        pt_interior_data_type.ne.'none') then

      bid = this_block%local_id
```
<span style="color:red;">This code segment indicates that the model only restore temperature with levels larger than 1. That's why restoring didn't work to surface level.</span> The first solution is to include the first level in code. Copy the scripts to *{case}/SourcemMods* directory and modify the code before compiling the model. 
```fortran
   if ((k >= 1 .or.pt_interior_surface_restore).and.                    &
        pt_interior_data_type.ne.'none') then
```
The second solution is to set the nml from *s_interior_surface_restore = .false.* to *s_interior_surface_restore = .ture.*
Now rebuild the model and running the case, we get the restored SST and SSS successfuly!

An other good way for restoring:
[CESM air-sea decoupling](https://novarizark.github.io/2018/01/28/decoupling-cesm/)

Last update: 08/08/2020
